.\" Manpage for stdalias library
.TH STDALIAS 3 "December 2024" "1.0" "C Library"

.SH NAME
stdalias \- A collection of common type aliases for numeric types, strings, and more in C

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdalias.h>

.SH DESCRIPTION
The stdalias library defines several type aliases for commonly used data types
in C, including integer types, floating-point types, string types, and more.
These types provide a convenient way to refer to standard data types and are
commonly used in C programming for type safety, portability, and better readability.

The types defined in the stdalias library include:
- `byte`, `u8`, `i8`, `u16`, `i16`, `u32`, `i32`, `u64`, `i64`, `u128`, `i128`
- `usize`, `iptr`, `ptr`, `f32`, `f64`, `f128`, `maxi`, `umaxi`
- `wchar`, `wint`, `string`, `wstring`

.SH TYPES
.TP
.B byte
A synonym for `uint8_t`, representing an 8-bit unsigned integer (1 byte).
.TP
.B u8
A synonym for `byte`, representing an 8-bit unsigned integer (1 byte).
.TP
.B i8
A signed 8-bit integer (1 byte).
.TP
.B u16
A 16-bit unsigned integer (2 bytes).
.TP
.B i16
A signed 16-bit integer (2 bytes).
.TP
.B u32
A 32-bit unsigned integer (4 bytes).
.TP
.B i32
A signed 32-bit integer (4 bytes).
.TP
.B u64
A 64-bit unsigned integer (8 bytes).
.TP
.B i64
A signed 64-bit integer (8 bytes).
.TP
.B u128
An unsigned 128-bit integer.
.TP
.B i128
A signed 128-bit integer.
.TP
.B usize
An alias for `size_t`, representing the size of an object in memory.
.TP
.B iptr
A signed integer type used to represent the size of a pointer (void*).
.TP
.B ptr
An unsigned integer type used to represent the size of a pointer (void*).
.TP
.B f32
A 32-bit floating point number (4 bytes).
.TP
.B f64
A 64-bit floating point number (8 bytes).
.TP
.B f128
A 128-bit floating point number (16 bytes).
.TP
.B maxi
The largest signed integer type available on the target platform.
.TP
.B umaxi
The largest unsigned integer type available on the target platform.
.TP
.B wchar
A Unicode character type, typically used for extended character sets.
.TP
.B wint
A wide character type used for I/O operations with extended characters.
.TP
.B string
A struct representing a standard character string in memory, including a length and capacity.
.TP
.B wstring
A struct representing a wide character string in memory, including a length and capacity.
.TP
.B __asm__
A macro redefines `__asm__` as `asm` for inline assembly support.

.SH USAGE EXAMPLES
#include <stdalias.h>

.SH SEE ALSO
.B stdlib(3)
.B stdint(3)
.B wchar(3)
.B ctype(3)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by 0xKeeper.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 0xKeeper.
